---
layout: post
title: Week 8
description: Furthering Analysis
date: 2023-07-28T11:00:00Z
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Starting Off
As usual, the week started off with my lab meeting (no presentations this time, though!) and continued on with diving deeper into my research.

## Furthering Analysis
I got about 600 words in my taxonomy and have done some preliminary analysis. Right now, while finishing up adding information from articles I read last week from 2021, I am also writing about different ways to break down the taxonomy as that is the direction Dr. Caspi suggested and that we are pursuing. It is interesting to think about features not only by setting (ex. indoor/outdoor), but also by the different forms of wayfinding (egocentric/allocentric/etc.), purposes outside of wayfinding, social-ecological factors outside of the physical environment, possibilities for data collection by various populations, ease of collection, and more. I also was thinking/writing about how accessibility is multimodal and multidimensional! 

I'm not certain about timing yet, but Dr. Caspi and I will be continuing this work into the school year and she says we can hopefully submit it to the ASSETS conference deadline in January. It also feeds into my honors thesis so she's okay with me incorporating the research into that, too. She is aware that I am defending my honors thesis under you in November.

We're also thinking of publishing the taxonomy as an interactive graph. I've done some research (looking at various sites for conventions -- there isn't one specific to that use case -- and good examples -- so far I've surprisingly not come across one...) and written up my ideas for it but also asked around for ideas on good libraries.

## Grocery Shopping
Outside of work, I also went shopping for groceries in several places and sang a few songs with an a capella group at the farmer's market. After that I got to cook tinola with chicken and kangkong (water spinach) which was really fun and exciting as it's not always easy to find kangkong, and it's one of my favorite vegetables!