---
layout: post
title: Week 9
description: Research and Skagit County
date: 2023-08-04T11:00:00Z
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Starting Off
The week started off much the same as previous weeks, continuing research into the taxonomy. I reviewed the remaining articles from 2021 and worked on adding them to the taxonomy and drawing connections to existing analyses on taxonomies. I also read a bit more and took notes on different forms of wayfinding.

## Visiting Skagit County, and Research Discussions
On Friday, Dr. Caspi actually took me to Skagit County! It was very fun to explore the town up north. Her home was also the very first accessible home I've been in, so I also took note about the kitchen setup (with a movable center table from IKEA, easy for prep!). Her housemate kept reiterating to her daughter and myself in conversation that "we all have different bodies, and they all work differently" and she told me to say "when I get to grad school" instead of "if I get to grad school" because she pointed out that I wouldn't stop trying anyway. It was kind of all of them to be very nice and accommodating and (without going into too many details) it was really nice to be understood.

I later helped with the waffles and Dr. Caspi's housemate joked that "what you didn't know is that this is part of your end-of-internship evaluation, so Anat is overseeing you from the corner!" (Dr. Caspi was talking a nap.) During the drive, Dr. Caspi and I also got the chance to continue our research discussion and Dr. Caspi had great ideas regarding comparing two taxonomies in figures and expanding built environment features to explicitly cover all levels of the integrative social-ecological framework we were using.