---
layout: post
title: Week 10
description: Finishing Up (Mostly)
date: 2023-08-11T11:00:00Z
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Starting Off
The week started off with a lot of meetings!

## The Meetings
Due to a labmate's scheduling conflicts (which I was informed of on Saturday) I presented my research this past Monday. (After talking with you on Sunday I planned the presentation, then cooked and made the actual slides on Monday morning, although I had two meetings beforehand, one of which ran over!) 

I also had a meeting with a transportation professor from UNC named Dr. Allie Thomas on Monday. Our discussions on transportation equity were super informative and we talked for 1 hour and 40 minutes.

I met Dr. Ladner for lunch 10 minutes later (flying up and down hills to make it on time) and talked to him about my research. He gave me tips on the final report and on grad school applications.

The following day, Dr. Caspi gave me more advice about grad school, including the importance of strong theory and recognizing that the labs you rotate/work in get tied to you.

## Writing
I'm currently writing a report (formatted like a technical paper) due Tuesday to the DREU program I'm in. I had immense writer's block on the paper specifically in the middle of the week but am finally chugging along. At one point I got out Outlook and pretended I was writing an email to outline key points. 

Besides the paper and these emails, I find myself writing numerous other things today while peacefully packing for leaving on Wednesday, August 16.